SUMMARY.md, before:

# Summary

- [👋 Welcome](./README.md)
- [✏️ Updates](./updates.md)
  - [2021-Oct](./updates/2021-oct.md)
- [📜 Charter](./CHARTER.md)
- [👪 Stakeholders](./stakeholders.md)
  - [2021-Nov](./stakeholders/2021-nov.md)
- [🛣 Roadmap](./roadmap.md)
  - [💬 Static async trait](./roadmap/static_async_trait.md)
    - [MVP: Static async fn in traits](./roadmap/static_async_trait_mvp.md)
  - [💬 impl Trait in traits](./roadmap/impl_trait_in_traits.md)
  - [💬 Dyn async trait](./roadmap/dyn_async_trait.md)
  - [💤 Dyn trait](./roadmap/dyn_trait.md)
  - [💤 Async drop](./roadmap/async_drop.md)
  - [💤 Async closures](./roadmap/async_closures.md)
- [🔬 Evaluation](./evaluation.md)
  - [Executor styles](./evaluation/executor-styles.md)
  - [Reference scenarios](./evaluation/scenarios.md)
    - [Background logging](./evaluation/scenarios/background-logging.md)
    - [Implementing AsyncRead](./evaluation/scenarios/implementing-async-read.md)
    - [Dyn](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn.md)
      - [Embedded system consuming general purpose libraries](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/embedded-consume.md)
      - [Performance-sensitive inner loop with dynamic dispatch](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/inner-loop.md)
      - [Taking ownership of the receiver](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/taking-ownership.md)
      - [Async drop](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/async-drop.md)
      - [Embedded async drop](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/embedded-async-drop.md)
  - [Challenges](./evaluation/challenges.md)
    - [Bounding futures](./evaluation/challenges/bounding_futures.md)
    - [Naming futures](./evaluation/challenges/naming_futures.md)
    - [Dyn traits](./evaluation/challenges/dyn_traits.md)
    - [Bounding async drop](./evaluation/challenges/bounding_async_drop.md)
    - [Guaranteeing async drop](./evaluation/challenges/guaranteeing_async_drop.md)
    - [Implicit await with async drop](./evaluation/challenges/implicit_await_with_async_drop.md)
  - [Design documents](./evaluation/design.md)
    - [Implied Send](./evaluation/design/implied_send.md)
    - [Trait multiplication](./evaluation/design/trait_multiplication.md)
    - [Inline async fn](./evaluation/design/inline_async_fn.md)
    - [Custom dyn impls](./evaluation/design/custom_dyn_impls.md)
    - [Auto traits consider AsyncDrop](./evaluation/design/auto_traits_consider_async_drop.md)
    - [Simple names](./evaluation/design/simple_names.md)
    - [Bound items](./evaluation/design/bound_items.md)
    - [With clauses](./evaluation/design/with_clauses.md)
- [📚 Explainer](./explainer.md)
- [✨ RFC](./RFC.md)
  - [Static async fn in traits](./RFC/static_async_fn_in_traits.md)
- [😕 FAQ](./FAQ.md)
- [Archive](./archive.md)
  - [2021: Phase 1](./archive/2021-phase_1.md)
  - [2021: Phase 1 narrative](./archive/2021-phase_1_narrative.md)

Commit message:

move over the "dyn async fn in trait"

SUMMARY.md, after:

# Summary

- [👋 Welcome](./README.md)
- [✏️ Updates](./updates.md)
  - [2021-Oct](./updates/2021-oct.md)
- [📜 Charter](./CHARTER.md)
- [👪 Stakeholders](./stakeholders.md)
  - [2021-Nov](./stakeholders/2021-nov.md)
- [🛣 Roadmap](./roadmap.md)
  - [💬 Static async trait](./roadmap/static_async_trait.md)
    - [MVP: Static async fn in traits](./roadmap/static_async_trait_mvp.md)
  - [💬 impl Trait in traits](./roadmap/impl_trait_in_traits.md)
  - [💬 Dyn async trait](./roadmap/dyn_async_trait.md)
  - [💤 Dyn trait](./roadmap/dyn_trait.md)
  - [💤 Async drop](./roadmap/async_drop.md)
  - [💤 Async closures](./roadmap/async_closures.md)
- [🔬 Evaluation](./evaluation.md)
  - [Executor styles](./evaluation/executor-styles.md)
  - [Reference scenarios](./evaluation/scenarios.md)
    - [Background logging](./evaluation/scenarios/background-logging.md)
    - [Implementing AsyncRead](./evaluation/scenarios/implementing-async-read.md)
    - [Dyn](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn.md)
      - [Embedded system consuming general purpose libraries](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/embedded-consume.md)
      - [Performance-sensitive inner loop with dynamic dispatch](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/inner-loop.md)
      - [Taking ownership of the receiver](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/taking-ownership.md)
      - [Async drop](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/async-drop.md)
      - [Embedded async drop](./evaluation/scenarios/dyn/embedded-async-drop.md)
  - [Challenges](./evaluation/challenges.md)
    - [Bounding futures](./evaluation/challenges/bounding_futures.md)
    - [Naming futures](./evaluation/challenges/naming_futures.md)
    - [Dyn traits](./evaluation/challenges/dyn_traits.md)
    - [Bounding async drop](./evaluation/challenges/bounding_async_drop.md)
    - [Guaranteeing async drop](./evaluation/challenges/guaranteeing_async_drop.md)
    - [Implicit await with async drop](./evaluation/challenges/implicit_await_with_async_drop.md)
  - [Design documents](./evaluation/design.md)
    - [Implied Send](./evaluation/design/implied_send.md)
    - [Trait multiplication](./evaluation/design/trait_multiplication.md)
    - [Inline async fn](./evaluation/design/inline_async_fn.md)
    - [Custom dyn impls](./evaluation/design/custom_dyn_impls.md)
    - [Auto traits consider AsyncDrop](./evaluation/design/auto_traits_consider_async_drop.md)
    - [Simple names](./evaluation/design/simple_names.md)
    - [Bound items](./evaluation/design/bound_items.md)
    - [With clauses](./evaluation/design/with_clauses.md)
    - [Dynx trait](./evaluation/design/dynx.md)
      - [Creation](./evaluation/design/dynx/creation.md)
      - [With auto traits](./evaluation/design/dynx/auto_trait.md)
      - [Sealed traits](./evaluation/design/dynx/sealed_traitsmd)
- [📚 Explainer](./explainer.md)
  - [Async fn in traits](./explainer/async_fn_in_traits.md)
  - [Async fn in dyn trait](./explainer/async_fn_in_dyn_trait.md)
    - [How it feels to use](./explainer/async_fn_in_dyn_trait/how_it_feels.md)
    - [Using dyn without allocation](./explainer/async_fn_in_dyn_trait/avoiding_allocation.md)
    - [How it works](./explainer/async_fn_in_dyn_trait/how_it_works.md)
      - [Hardcoding box](./explainer/async_fn_in_dyn_trait/hardcoding_box.md)
      - [Generalizing from box to dynx](./explainer/async_fn_in_dyn_trait/generalizing_from_box_to_dynx.md)
      - [Identity shim functions](./explainer/async_fn_in_dyn_trait/identity_shim_functions.md)
      - [Unresolved questions](./explainer/async_fn_in_dyn_trait/unresolved.md)
  - [Appendix: Summary of user-facing extensions](./explainer/user_facing_summary.md)
  - [Appendix: Implementation plan](./explainer/implementation_plan.md)
  - [Appendix: Inline async iter adapter](./explainer/inline_async_iter_adapter.md)
- [✨ RFC](./RFC.md)
  - [Static async fn in traits](./RFC/static_async_fn_in_traits.md)
- [😕 FAQ](./FAQ.md)
- [Archive](./archive.md)
  - [2021: Phase 1](./archive/2021-phase_1.md)
  - [2021: Phase 1 narrative](./archive/2021-phase_1_narrative.md)
